Hi! Welcome back.
Before we delve deeper into the world of UX,
it is good to know how this field came to be.
Don Norman, the godfather of UX,
was the first to use the term in his book:
The Design of Everyday Things.
He coined the term because he found the terms
human interface and usability too restrictive.
He wanted to cover all aspects of a human's
experience with a system.
When you think of UX, you associate it with
apps or websites.
But it is not a modern concept.
And even Norman wasn't the first.
Putting people first was a thing long before
the internet.
Join me in a brief history of UX to understand
how this discipline came to be.
The most basic principles of UX can be traced
back to ancient Chinese and Greek civilizations.
They designed their tools and workplaces based
on how people interact with them.
And also Leonardo da Vinci explored the relationship
between technology and user experience.
Yet it was not until the early 1900s that
UX began to form into a separate discipline.
In the early 20th century, during the Industrial
Revolution, American engineer Frederick Winslow
Taylor initiated a movement called Taylorism.
This focused on how employees use their tools
to perform tasks efficiently.
While Taylorism has been widely criticized
for the way it reduced people to cogs in a machine
Taylor's focus on optimizing the
relationship between people and their tools
is reflected in some key UX principles.
The next step on the timeline takes us to
the 1940s, where Toyota developed a human-centric
manufacturing system.
It was based on respect for people and a lot
of attention was paid to creating an optimal
working environment.
Human input was seen as
crucial and actively encouraged.
For example, Toyota factory workers could
stop the assembly line if they had feedback
or suggestions to improve the process.
This approach involves humans in the improvement
process for the first time and reduces the
human factor lost in Taylorism.
It was an important step in UX history as
it focused on putting the user first.
Another key figure in the history of UX design
is industrial designer Henry Dreyfuss.
In 1955 he wrote the classic text
'Designing for People'.
In which he focused on people's experiences,
good or bad, with the design of a product.
One of the many helpful points in his book
is how you can design for a variety of people
to use a service or product.
The book is often cited as a pivotal point
in understanding between people, product,
and design.
This quote from the book
explains UX in a nutshell:
“When the point of contact between the product
and the people becomes a point of friction,
then the industrial designer has failed.
On the other hand, if people are made safer,
more comfortable, more eager to purchase,
more efficient - or just plain happier - by
contact with the product, then the designer
has succeeded.”
Walt Disney may have even been one of the
first UX Designers.
He had a passion for bringing experiences
for families to share.
Culminating in the construction of
Disneyland in 1955.
Disney was obsessed with creating magical,
immersive, near-perfect user experiences.
Walt Disney's guiding principles for his team
of engineers were all about knowing your audience,
wearing your guest's shoes, telling stories,
communicating with color, shape, form, texture,
and so on.
Pretty much the job description of a UX designer.
In the 1970s, Xerox's research department gave
form and function to the design of computers
for human use.
Before that, the only people who dealt with
computers were IT professionals.
This changed with the first personal computer
released in the late 1970s.
When this tool became accessible to everyone,
psychologists and engineers teamed up to focus
on the user experience.
This resulted in some groundbreaking technological
innovations that we still use today.
The graphical user interface that the person
uses to interact with the personal computer
was developed to make it user-friendly.
Much like the computer mouse for easily navigating
a personal computer.
It set the tone for personal computing as
we know it today.
Human-computer interaction was founded
in the early 1980s as a discipline that focused
on computer science and human factors engineering.
In recent decades, specialisms such as ergonomics,
cognitive psychology, accessibility, and design
of human interfaces have been added.
Shortly after the graphical user interface
was implemented, computer screens became cluttered
with hundreds of icons that made it difficult
to find files, and the first extension of
human-computer interaction, the search function,
was introduced to make it easy for users to
find what they were looking for.
On January 24, 1984, the first Apple Macintosh
was released by Steve Jobs.
The company's first mass-market personal computer
with a graphical user interface,
built-in display, and mouse.
Since then, Apple has been a true innovator
of the user experience.
The tech giant even had a hand in coining
the term User Experience.
In the 1990s, ‘User Experience’ was widespread
but lacked an official label.
When Donald Norman joined Apple in the early
1990s, he needed a term that would encompass
everything UX is.
He coined the term user experience
as we know it today.
As he explains, “I invented the term because
I thought Human Interface and usability were
too narrow.
I wanted to cover all aspects of the person’s
experience with a system, including industrial
design, graphics, the interface, the physical
interaction, and the manual.”
Norman published "The Design of Everyday Things",
which remains an important reference for UX
design to this day.
In this book, he promotes usability and user
experience rather than the aesthetics of a product.
Norman's focus on improving usability goes
hand in hand with the person's perception
of the product.
Human-related sciences, technical advancements,
and design-oriented disciplines all contribute
to the enhanced interaction between a person
and the technology they use.
With the introduction of various devices,
the interaction between humans and computers
expanded.
People started using laptops and mobile phones
that became available.
From gradual device expansion, technology
found its way into the everyday life of the user.
Such as in their cars and home appliances.
And it will continue to evolve and become
more integrated into our daily lives and society.
It is a rapidly growing field as the most
important value factor in the tech industry
will be the user experience.
Please join me in the next lesson where we'll look
at all the factors that influence this experience.